---
title:  "Why I am here."
date:   2016-10-01 15:04:23
categories: [zen]
tags: [zen]
---

I started this blog to talk about myself. I am a Full Stack developer at an agency in New York City. I moved to New York full time almost half a year ago. I live in Brooklyn and work in Times square. I have always had a passion for programming and have been programming since I was 14 years old and joined my high school’s robotics team. FIRST Team 28! I spend most of my time now doing web development. I enjoy both frontend and backend development, but I tend to favor backend work and server configuration. In fact despite being a developer myself I am using someone else's jekyll theme for this, shout out to ‘joshgerdes’. 

I am also a human being beyond my work in Programming. I enjoy coffee and alcohol on a regular basis and am struggling to achieve enlightenment despite my busy life like all of us. I practice mindful meditation on a daily basis and it helps me tremendously. I find a strong connection between programming and Zen meditation. The two seem to work in tandem for me. I meditate in the mornings before work and on the subway during my commute, but working itself sometimes can be a meditation. It's all about getting out of one's way. We can feel calm and happy all the time and produce good work as well all as long as we get out of our own paths. As much as programming is about thinking once you know the basics if you can just let your fingers take over good code seems to flow from your keyboard. 

In short the real reason I started this blog was not to talk about myself but rather to myself. Writing to an audience, whoever they may be, is like looking in a mirror and it can help oneself think more clearly and deeply about their own issues. So thank you for listening. And in return for you patience I leave you a quote from Rumi:

“Out beyond ideas of wrongdoing 
and rightdoing there is a field.
I'll meet you there.

When the soul lies down in that grass
the world is too full to talk about.” 